Vocabulary MCQ P3 exercise 10 'Idioms about People'
1.	"by the skin of your teeth": This means that you just managed to do something and almost failed, e.g. I made it to the classroom by the skin of my teeth, just as the bell rang. 
2.	"skin and bone”: If someone is all skin and bone, it means that he is very thin and unhealthy-looking, e.g The beggar looked like he had not eaten for days; he was probably very thin and weak. 
3.	"flesh and blood": This refers to someone who is in your family, e.g. The man was terrible to treat his own flesh and blood in such a cruel way. 
4.	"not to have a hair out of place": This means to have a very neat appearance, e.g. My aunt always looks well-groomed and neat, and never has a single hair out of place. 
5.	"wet blanket": A wet blanket is someone who is not keen on something and discourages others. Wet blankets are not liked by others because they are not willing to do things that others want to do. This is an idiom and none of the other words here are used to talk about a person. 
6.	"wet market": A wet market is a place where fresh meat, seafood and vegetables are sold. The phrase "wet market" is used in Asian countries such as Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong. 
7.	"wet weather": Wet weather is rainy weather, e.g. The newspaper reports that wet weather is expected to last till the end of the year. 
8.	"wet paint": Wet paint refers to paint that is not dry yet. We sometimes see signs warning us that there is "wet paint" on walls or benches. 
9.	"jacket potato": A jacket potato is a baked potato dish. It means that the potato has been baked with its skin on. 
10.	"new potato": A new potato is a small and young potato. The farmer takes it from the ground early. 
11.	"hot potato": A hot potato is a difficult topic that no one wants to deal with because they are afraid that people may get angry. Adults sometimes avoid talking about something because it may be a "hot potato". 
12.	"couch potato": A couch potato is someone who spends a lot of time sitting down and watching television, such as the grandmother in this sentence. This is the only choice which refers to a person. 
13.	"down-to-earth": Someone who is down-to-earth is sensible and honest. This is why people like Nellie is popular. 
14.	"down-and-out": Someone who is down-and-out has no luck and no money, e.g. James is a down-and-out salesman looking for work. Nellie is popular in school, so she is probably not down-and-out. 
15.	"down in the dumps": Someone who is down in the dumps is very sad, e.g. Henry has been down in the dumps since his pet dog died. This sentence is about Nellie being popular, so she cannot be down in the dumps. 
16.	"downtown": Downtown is the city centre, where many shops and businesses are located, e.g. My mother likes shopping downtown than at the neighbourhood mall. This sentence is not about a place.
17.	"To look a fright": To look a fright is to look very ugly or silly. The clue here is that everyone gasped, which shows that they were shocked. This tells us that they did not think Thea looked good. "To look a fright" is an idiom and none of the other words here are used with "look" to form a phrase. 
18.	"take flight": "Flight" is running away from something. If someone "takes flight", it means that he is running away, e.g. When the thief saw the policemen walking towards him, he turned around and took flight. 
19.	"might": "Might" is "strength", e.g. / pushed at the door with all my might, but it would not budge. 
20.	"take delight in something": "Delight" is "joy" or "happiness If someone "takes delight in something", it means that he likes or enjoys something, e.g. Sherry takes delight in playing with her baby brother. 
21.	"just": Someone who is just is fair, e.g. The just judge told the thief that he had to be punished for his crime. The teacher is not asking the pupils to be fair, so this cannot be the answer.
22.	"fit": Someone who is fit is strong and healthy, e.g. My elder brother stays fit by jogging three times a week. The teacher is not asking the pupils to be fit and strong, so this cannot be the answer.
23.	"private": Someone who is private does not like to talk much about his thoughts and feelings, e.g. The actor is a private person so nobody knows very much about his life. 
24. "prim and proper": To be prim and proper is to be very careful about doing things in the right way. People who are prim and proper are usually very neat and polite, like the teacher here. 
25.	"plain": Someone who is plain is not attractive, e.g. Mrs Hiew looked rather plain, but she was highly intelligent. The clue here is that Fred thought he was smarter than others, so the answer is not about his looks. We also do not say that someone is "plain and mighty". 
26.	"strong and mighty": Someone who is strong and mighty is very powerful and strong, e.g. The weak soldiers of the English army were no match for the strong and mighty Viking warriors. The clue here is that Fred thought he was smarter than others, not that he was stronger than others, so "strong and mighty" is not the answer.
27.	"high and mighty": Someone who is high and mighty is proud and thinks that he is better than others. The clue here is that Fred thought he was smarter than others, which is why he acted "high and mighty" 
28.	"noble": Someone who is noble is very good and generous, e.g. Giving up your seat for the others on the bus is a kind and noble deed. The clue here is that Fred thought he was smarter than others, so the answer is not about being good and generous. We also do not say that 
29.	"A motley bunch of people": A motley bunch of people is a group of people who are different from each other. The clue here is in the last sentence of the passage - the pupils are very different from each other. We use this phrase "motley bunch" or "motley crew" when we talk about a group of people who do not seem to belong together. 
30.	"live wire": A live wire is someone who is very active and full of energy. The clue here is that Mohit stands out and that he answers all the questions even when he does not know the answers to them. This shows how active he is in class. 
31.	"eager beaver": A beaver is a small animal with thick fur and a wide flat tail. It works very hard to cut down trees with its teeth. An "eager beaver" is someone who is very keen to do things and sometimes tries or works too hard. The clue here is that Kelvin tries hard to please the teacher. 
32.	"spitting image of someone": To be the spitting image of someone is to look exactly the same as another person. Twins are often spitting images of each other, which is why the teacher says she cannot tell them apart. 
33.	"tough cookie": If someone is a tough cookie, it means that he is very confident and strong-willed and will work hard to get what he wants. The paragraph tells us that Jack does not feel depressed or discouraged even though he has a tough life. This shows us that he is a "tough cookie". 
34.	"tough nut": A tough nut is someone who is stubborn and hard to please. The paragraph does not show us that Jack is a difficult person, so "tough nut" cannot be the answer.

